Hello everyone. I'm Diana and welcome
back to base for our second episode. Who
have we got?
We have a slightly different setup
today. We are physically missing one
piece to our puzzle and that is our
right-hand man. Insert him here. He's
like that. My other half, Sebastian, aka
Australian Strength Coach. He's on the
other side of the world in Columbus,
Ohio with our very, very special guest.
So, we are going to be Skyping him in
today. Hey Bass. Hey girls. Hi. Hello.
We miss you. I miss you.
It's been like 3 days. Can you guys
guess who he's with?
All right. We are sure you guessed it.
It is
It is our champion friend and Bass's
strongest athlete, the one and only
Hafthor Björnsson. Welcome to the show,
Thor. Thank you so much, guys. It's such
an honor to be your second guest.
No, you're our first guest. You're our
first guest. So wow.
I'm so honored and I'm so happy.
Oh, we wouldn't have it any other way.
Seriously, we are so excited. Firstly,
we want to say the biggest
congratulations to you for winning the
Arnold and for Bass, of course, for
coaching you. Great work, guys. You did
it.
So good. So exciting. Congrats, Thor.
Thank you, guys.
Congrats, Thor. Thank you. Thank you.
And of course, we need to say a big
congratulations to the amazing woman
behind the big man or right next to the
big man, his beautiful wife and my close
friend, you guys, Kelsey. That is so
cute.
Congrats, Kels.
They're just cute.
Get a room, guys. Aw, that is so cute.
Hi.
So good to see you on here, too. Thanks
for joining us, guys. I know it's quite
late for you, so
Anyway, we'll be fine. We're so sad that
we couldn't be there with you guys.
Well, the last episode we concluded by
saying that we were going to come to
Ohio. But like literally 3 hours before
we were about to hop on that flight,
they announced that the Arnolds were
canceled. Well, at least that there was
no spectators. But they kept going back
and forth. They were saying spectators
could watch and then they were saying
they couldn't. So, we were devastated,
but we we obviously had to send Bass.
So,
he took one for the team. He's there.
But we're so sad that we couldn't be
there with you guys.
So, here we are, Base Body Babes in
Sydney, Australia and you guys,
Sebastian, Thor, Kelsey and Team Iceland
are in Ohio.
Team Iceland. Yeah.
Team Thor. Well, although we're I'm on
the other side of the world, I did not
want to miss the opportunity to have
definitely my number one athlete,
a huge influence in where I am today in
my career.
2016, I met Hafthor. Since then, we've
been working together and my life has
changed so much.
It just wouldn't feel right to have any
other guests on our first episode. So,
although we're apart, I just didn't want
to miss this opportunity.
I would have preferred that it was
face-to-face, but we're just going to
make do with what we've got and we're
here Skyping you guys, so we're going to
make it work.
So good.
Yeah, I know this is working out really,
really well.
So, why didn't you guys fill us in on
everything that we've missed? How did
the comp play out over the last 2 days?
Well, let's go straight to the spoiler
alert.
Spoiler alert.
in a row. Congratulations. Yeah,
congrats, Thor. It was a great contest
overall. I had a I had some good fights
against Martins Licis and Kostas He came
in ready. He came in strong.
He actually won four events out of six.
That's pretty impressive. But what took
him down was his deadlift.
What
What made me the champion was how
consistent I was throughout the
competition. I placed The lowest place I
placed was fourth.
And then it was just like third, second
and first. So, so
being consistent in in in in this sport
and having no weaknesses is the key to
be the champ.
And to be honest, I feel I don't have
any weaknesses and that's why I've been
able to win so many shows back-to-back.
It's amazing. I absolutely agree. So
amazing. Thor, were you going into this
competition, were you confident that you
were going to win?
You know what? Yes, I was confident and
that's I want to say that's something
that builds with experience, you know.
I've been competing now for a decade in
my sport
and every year that passes, I feel I get
more confident and then
what what helps as well is the team I
have behind me. I know that they have,
you know, the best best coach in the
world. I have the best nutrition coach
around, the best biohacker. So, amazing
support system that that gives me the
extra um
extra, you know, kick in the knee to
the, you know, I I just believe that
there's no way I can lose. And you know,
the preparation went so well. I I
prepped for this contest.
I started 17 weeks out
and we just made sure that, you know, I
trained everything super well. We made
sure I trained the shield temple
twice a week twice a week for 17 weeks.
Um and you know, I just had no
weaknesses. I just came in ready. I
performed the way I usually perform and
I won.
Yeah, so the way that I see it,
I mean, Hafthor keeps saying 17 weeks
preparation. He's got a pretty good base
to start with as we all know. Like he's
a really strong guy. He's very
well-rounded athlete. But yeah, 17 weeks
is when we're given notice of the events
that we actually have. In this
competition, it was six events and that
was deadlift.
We all know that that's right now Thor's
absolutely the best deadlifter on the
planet. There is no question. So, that's
his event and we knew that was going to
be his event, but we had a lot of
incentive to to really, really work his
strengths with that. So, that really
always takes priority in your
programming. But something that was
unusual about this one that I saw from
the coach's perspective is one of the
events, as he said, the seated dumbbell.
Um
the dumbbell weight was world record and
that's what they expected the athletes
to be able to achieve was world record,
which is absolutely crazy.
Um just so you know, the world record at
the time,
I think 145 kg, it was just set for the
seated dumbbell. Mhm. And
anyway, so they expect these athletes
The Arnold is the strongest It's known
as the heaviest of the strongman
competition in the world out of all the
major competitions. So, we've got
World's Strongest Man, Europe's
Strongest Man. The Arnold is the one
with the heaviest events. So, the one
that stood out to me was deadlift. Let's
prioritize the hell out of that.
Seated dumbbell, let's prioritize the
hell out of that. So, something that I
noticed with when I saw Hafthor getting
off the airplane was actually his
shoulders looked about this wide. Crazy.
It's like I can't believe my eyes. I
can't believe how big this guy actually
is. So,
you know, you guys have seen all the
photos of us together and I look puny.
Kelsey looks very puny.
The whole world has seen the memes of
you guys. I'm not going to get into how
the memes go, but Yeah, every time every
time we've Skyped and we've just all
FaceTimed and we I've seen Thor and his
head's just so big and his shoulders are
so big. It's like, okay, you're ready.
You are ready.
So yeah, so the seated dumbbell was
That was kind of a new event. Like we've
never really trained that way for your
upper body as much.
Yeah, it hadn't been
in any of my contests now for a while.
So, I haven't trained it in in you know,
a few years. So, that's, you know, it
was a it was a very technical event, but
I feel like, you know, I have the
strength. I have the, you know, strict
power. I just had to really focus on
that event to get the technique right
and just get comfortable with it with
that heavy heavy weight, you know. I'm
going to go straight to the end of the
show. That's
the event that you finished the show on.
That was the last event and man,
I posted it on social media. You can
hear my reaction behind the scenes
watching it on television.
We came in with the plan and that was
just to win the event, to win the
Arnold.
He was the last man to go, so we knew
exactly what he needed to do to win the
show and that was to press 280 lb and
that's all he needed to do. So, of
course, I'm always nervous. I'm always
confident. I know how strong and able
Thor is, but you know, it's something
about me. I'm always nervous. You know,
I'm just that kind of guy. And anyway,
he came in, picked up the 280 kg
dumbbell and he won the Arnold.
Insane.
Then he proceeds to the next dumbbell,
which of course, he didn't need to do,
which was 300 lb. I don't know what that
is in kilograms. It's 136 kg. 136 kg and
only one of the other two of the other
athletes had done that. So, he picked it
up, no problem. That was just he was
just being a show. So, after he did the
300 lb, he he'd won it. We knew he'd won
it. He could have walked off with his
head high and his arms up in the air and
then he points to the biggest one on the
stage, which no one has done. It's like,
He picks it up with ease and he just he
was in control of it. Long story short,
he missed it just by the lockout. We all
thought he was going to get it. And and
what was really cool about this event is
we were backstage and the other
competitors and their coaches were were
cheering Thor on. Like they were so
excited by this whole thing.
Kelsey, you feel? I bet you're so happy
that this is one comp down for the year.
Yeah, I feel relieved now. This event, I
was
shaking. I was shaking. Oh, I I feel
you.
But now he's up there making a
statement. So, how many different events
are there? Six. And what what are So,
the first event that we started with was
a new event called trial by stone. Mhm.
That's That's uh five stones total. Mhm.
You have to press two stones overhead.
Uh then there's two stones that you have
to load up to a platform. Then you run
to the Husafell Stone replica that that
the Rogue Fitness made and you have to
run with that 15 m. It's a timed event.
We have to like the person time that is
able to finish all the five stones wins.
Martins Licis won that event. I placed
second. The next event was a battle of
bar event that I'm so good at. Best in
the world at best in the world. I won on
that that event. Got 10 points.
Um third event of that day was the wheel
of pain. Mhm. That sounds horrible.
And I came third in that.
That event as a
as a massive equipment that that that
Rogue Fitness was my sponsors made for
this show. It's just incredible. The
most
unique, beautiful equipment that that
that that Strongman has ever seen. It's
It's awesome for sure. It's awesome.
Day two The That was That was day one.
We finished day one in second place by
half a point. Yeah. So, now we go to day
two. Day two we start with the elephant
bar deadlift. Yes.
And I won that event.
Amazing.
I wanted to win it for sure. For sure,
we should talk about that. I I wanted to
win it a little bit over a thousand
pounds pull. I I only had only needed to
uh two pulls to win that event. But so
that was that was actually super um
convenient for me because I was able to
um
not spend as much energy like the other
guys that were maybe um they had to do
three lifts, went to failure, and when
you go to failure, you know, this is
something that the the the bars
make sure that I never do in training
because you want to you you only want to
leave the failure to the competition.
Because failing in in competition is
going to fatigue you so much more. You
never really want to want want want want
want want want want to fail because
that's going to Not if you don't have
to. Not not not if you don't have to
because that's going to make you like
hit a wall. At least in my opinion, and
I think you agree with me. Absolutely.
Um
The next event after that was the frame
carry up a ramp. Mhm. Uh new frames, a
new ramp, two actually two frames, brand
new wooden frames that that that Rogue
Fitness had made for this competition
and a brand new two ramps that we had
actually have to run with these uh
beautiful 400 kg uh frames. Yeah. I have
to run that is roughly, if I remember
right, 9 m. Right.
Something like something like that, 9 m.
First time when I actually that that
that was my poorest performance of the
whole competition.
I placed fourth there.
Yep. Mhm.
Uh the last event The shield number.
That That after that um so let's go back
to the deadlift. You won that by a mile.
Right. And
and that put him in such a lead that
even though he came fourth in the frame,
he came into the last show first place.
And
with with my three and a half points
Wow.
which is why we knew we All we needed to
do was come fourth in that whole event
to win the whole show. Right.
But that was the dumbbell. Yeah.
So, I was going into the dumbbell with
two and a half points leads, which is
super
super good in my opinion. Well,
like I in like I don't have weaknesses
in this sport.
Um
I can always place in my opinion like
top three. The worst thing is like I
don't know, fourth. If it's not a
mistake, mate.
If it's not a mistake made made, you
know. Um so I felt super comfortable and
I knew that I had worked super super
hard on the shield number. I actually
had a a mate
uh 150 kg dumbbell.
Um
my I had a friend of mine make that so I
could train train with that
in my own gym. Right.
of the exactly the shield number.
So, I got that. I trained with it a
couple of times, but it actually came
out to weigh 146 kg. Mhm. I wasn't able
to lock that out in training, but I I I
was able to like clean it a couple of
times. I gave it
few tries. It's just like it's something
with the dumbbell you you you you have
it here up. It's like it's the tricep
power that usually like fails me like
the energy, you know, just the lockout,
you know. But
I was very comfortable going to that.
Placed second.
Won the show.
Amazing. Insane. So, which one was your
favorite event?
Probably that, the shield number.
Yeah, right.
You love a challenge.
Yeah. I just like
why that is the event.
It was just like
that attempt with the 330 pound dumbbell
was just like That's 150 kg? It was just
so amazing to me and like I was I even
though I failed the dumbbell, I was just
I was so happy because I was so close.
Yeah, right.
you what
especially happy. It's like it's an
event that Kieliszkowski actually holds
the world record for, but it's nothing
really that you've actually trained to
attempt the world record ever. And
actually it's the first time we focused
on it, and
Kieliszkowski got the 320. He didn't
even attempt the 320, but I think he
would got it. Yeah. You were that close
with the 330, you know, it was all about
the showmanship at the end and putting
on a good performance. So, he just
skipped the 320. He didn't want to draw
with Kieliszkowski. Straight to the
biggest one. And and something that I
love about that is a lot of the times in
Strongman competition, they choose
events that none of the athletes have
really done before. And it's like,
"Okay, well, we don't know how good
we're going to do, so we train the hell
out of it." And he ends up top two
always or even first place with new
events, which just goes to show when
everyone has the same amount of time to
train for the same event, Thor wins.
Thor is the strongest man in the world
currently. You are. Yes, you are. That
was That was definitely my favorite as
well, the shield number. We just want to
ask one more question. Which one were
you the most nervous for Mhm. leading up
into the
Probably the to be honest, probably the
trial by stone because it was a new
event. It was the first event.
And
um
the stones were kind of awkward. They
were small. It's super easy to make a
mistake with with those stones.
Um
so I was quite nervous going to that
event because you had like no
idea how I would perform
or even if I would make any mistakes.
Mhm. I kind of going into that event, I
decided to take my time with the first
natural stones. So, I went into that. I
I made sure to take, you know, good time
with them and walk it out. I was able to
finish them both without doing any
mistake, and then I finished the rest of
the course, you know,
good, and I was happy with my
performance, placed second right behind
Martins Licis. But yeah, that I was for
sure for me
the most nervous. Okay. So, so
with with that performance, you were
third, which isn't always the best. It's
always the best to be later on on the
last lift of the series so you can see
what all of the other athletes do. And
that's the advantage that Kieliszkowski
had. Thor was the only other lifter that
actually finished it. And well, he was
the first lifter to finish all of the
stones, and Kieliszkowski was able to
learn from the way that Thor did it and
see exactly how fast he needed to move.
Yeah, right.
Um if the tables had turned and Thor was
able to see how Kieliszkowski moved, um
it it always happens. Thor is able to
perform and do what he needs to do to
get the job done. Being the first, the
instructions I was screaming it out as
well. Take your time. Take your time.
And it was a good game plan, and I
wouldn't have changed it anyway. No, me
either.
And on that note of game plan, did it
all go to plan? Like how were you guys
feeling while you were in it?
Bass, you're the coach. I'll tell you
the first thing that after that didn't
go to plan was that they canceled the
entire show.
Yeah, right.
But that drained a lot of energy. Uh
every hour these guys are receiving
updates of whether the show's on or not.
Yeah. Uh being anxious about it.
Like
He's trying to just focus on the show,
and then he's given news that it might
not even be on, and then then it's on,
but his family's not allowed to watch,
or now they are, and it's
That's That's probably um you know, the
most uh
caused the most anxiety out of out of
everything else. But um you know, you
guys talk about nerves and and
everything with Thor, and I know it's a
better for him to speak on his own
behalf, but from what I see, he comes in
ready, and that takes away some anxiety.
We trained every event really really
well, uh and it just goes
a long way with confidence.
confidence through the whole show.
Being prepared Yeah, yeah, I have to
agree agree with you on
on that bus, you know, that was for sure
nerve-wracking, you know, especially
because I had
18 people with me, and I I I don't want
to
disappoint them. They disappoint them.
They already came all this way from
Iceland, you from Australia.
And my my whole training team as well,
you know, a lot of people here coming to
support me, so I had a lot of pressure
on me. A lot of pressure on me.
I didn't want to let them down. Of
course, I didn't want to want them to
stay at the hotel. I wanted to show
here.
Suddenly,
nerve-wracking, you know. Obviously,
having an amazing support system is a
system is an important part of your
success. You always have your beautiful
wife by your side helping you everywhere
you go.
I am lucky enough to be such a close
friend of Kelsie, and I see how amazing
she is with you. She's the best wifey,
and I claim to be the best wife as well.
So, we are both great wives.
I said you're just pumping my tires. No,
you're amazing. You are amazing. So, can
you just tell us who came from Iceland?
Who didn't we see? Your mom, your dad,
which team Iceland members came? Yeah,
so yeah, my mom and dad came, my my my
grandfather, grandma, my older sister,
her fiance, my sister's son,
uh and then
uh like a lot of
guys guys from the gym, you know, good
friends, all all all the best, you know,
guys, you know, Andrew Ray, you know
him, you know, he's a great guy.
That's amazing.
He he he was the one that came
to World's Strongest Man back in 2011,
my first competition, and almost been to
every single contest since then. Imagine
that. You have the biggest supporters.
Not only are you just so popular, and
your fans adore you, but your family and
friends absolutely adore you, and it's
so nice to always see them there
supporting you. It always warms my
heart. It's so lovely. So cute.
17 people. 17 um
people. I'm super grateful, I'm And they
they are the loudest cheer squad I've
ever heard in my life.
Yeah.
Oh, he's the best. That's so He's so
good. And your grandparents, Thor, your
grandparents are so loud. They are the
best. I loved watching them. You can see
why you are the man that you are. You
just have so like so much passion from
the Icelandic people. It's so good to
watch.
So, can you just tell us So, in the end,
spectators were allowed to watch?
And did it affect your performance at
all, or you were just like ready to go?
Honestly, I was
told that only coaches and family
members were allowed, but then
There were a lot of athletes.
All of the
sporting events were still going, so
there were a lot of athletes in the
area, and I'm pretty sure it was all
athletes. Was it only athletes? Yeah,
but they were there. But I think some of
the athletes the other athletes' family
and friends were there as well.
But there would have been maybe a
thousand people in the entire stadium.
So, there was still a crowd.
Yeah.
It was better than what we were
expecting, for sure.
Okay, so why don't we talk about what's
next for you? So, that's the Is that the
first competition for the year down for
2020?
That's the first competition of the
year. What have we got coming up?
place. Next comp after me is another
competition in 5 weeks.
Um the World's
Strongest Man in Bahrain, 11th of April.
So, I'll go home now. I'll start my
preparation.
I'm going to be messing with coach.
Where's my program? Where's my program?
Oh, send it now. No, I'm just kidding.
I'm just I'm just teasing him. He's
always ready for you, Thor.
He's more ready for you than he is ready
for me at all times.
Oh, no, you're right.
Anyways, so that's a huge competition,
and I
I'm going to
deadlift 501 kg today. There you are.
Yeah.
With a deadlift bar, in a suit, deadlift
suit, um figure-eight straps.
So, I'm excited. I'm ready, you know.
So, that's WUS. WUS. And then after
that?
We go to
Let's give a little bit of perspective
for this. A lot of talk has gone behind
this 501 kg deadlift. Um actually, at
this show, the Arnolds, and a lot of
people are asking um it's funny, a lot
of people understand there is a
difference between the deadlift bar,
there's different circumstances where
you can use a suit and different straps,
and there's multiple different world
records. And there was a actual prize
money uh of a hundred a hundred one
thousand dollars to deadlift
uh 501 kg at this event.
But the circumstances were extremely
different at this Arnolds. And the main
determining factor, the reason why we
didn't attempt the 501 kg deadlift now,
is because it was on the second day. The
first day, there were three really
really challenging and uh fatiguing
events. So, he came to attempt 501 kg in
a fatigued state, and it was our
decision not to risk injury, uh
especially when there is an even bigger
deadlift goal, and that is to achieve
the ultimate world record. The current
world record is 500 kg on a deadlift
bar. So, we don't want any uh black
asterisks above our name saying, "Yeah,
we did 501, but it was on an elephant
bar."
We're going to compare apples with
apples, under the same rules, same
circumstances, with the same equipment,
and we're going to once and for all uh
break that record, and show that Hafthor
is
the best deadlifter on the planet.
Can't wait to see it. So excited to
watch that. Bas, what's your plan with
Thor's programming over the next 5
weeks?
So, it's pretty crazy, but he gets home
this Wednesday,
uh back in Iceland, and we've discussed
whether or not he's going to get into
the gym the first day that he gets back
home. Uh it's not going to be anything
heavy. It's not like we're so hardcore
that we we beat him up straight away. Uh
it's just gently reintroducing his body.
He does need a little bit of rest, even
though um he's feeling great. There's no
injuries, which is
best-case scenario.
Um he still performed really really
amazingly, and that does take its toll
on the body. So, initially, We're going
to give him a little deload week, hey?
Absolutely, we're going to start with a
deload, which is what I recommend for
everyone who comes out of competition.
Don't come back and go, you know, all
guns blazing. Um you've got to give your
body a rest. He's still human, uh even
though a lot of people think he's not.
Um so, we come in with a small deload,
and then we're gradually going to
relearn how to use the deadlift suit,
because that's really important. Uh he's
been doing uh the rules for the elephant
bar at the Arnolds is raw, so no
deadlift. So, even though the deadlift
suit helps, it's a technique involved.
So, we're going to relearn that
technique gradually. So, his best
deadlift in competition leading up to
the Arnolds was 480 kg without a suit.
And his body is already strong enough,
so I don't need to beat his body up even
more to be able to achieve the 501. I
believe he's strong enough to achieve
the 501. So, it's now just conditioning
his body how to peak on the day, in 5
weeks' time.
But it doesn't end there.
There's four more events.
And those events, um he's going to train
for those as well. So,
So, log lifting,
Mhm. log lift,
uh frame No, farmer's walks,
dumbbell,
uh Atlas stones,
and yeah, that's that's five events. I
think it was all the same. You're
amazing at all of those events.
Yeah, so So, um those are the events of
WUS.
Um those are the five events. He's very
much ready to compete now. So, the next
5 weeks isn't necessarily about beating
his body up too much. It's just about
relearning the skills of the new events.
Uh and he's strong enough to step into
competition right now. So, the next uh
few weeks
of training is is going to be pretty
easy, I'd say.
So, what are your goals moving forward,
Thor?
Obviously, WUS, that's 501 is a massive
goal.
World's Ultimate Strongman, the 501 kg
deadlift, those, you know, winning the
title of the World's Ultimate Strongman
is,
you know,
I would say goal number two. The 501
right now is goal number one. That's
That's the goal number one. It's a good
goal.
These two are my main goals right now.
Then later on the year, I have coming up
World's Strongest Man.
Um I'd be lying if I was sitting here
saying that that's not my goal to win
that again. Yes.
And then just like, I don't know, like
getting better overall as an athlete and
then as a person. Yeah, you're an
amazing person and an amazing athlete,
and you never cease to stop amazing the
world with your talent. It's crazy. Um
okay, so we're just going to rewind a
little bit, and go all the way back to
when we first met. We've spoken about
this on our side for our side of the
story a million times to our audience,
but we would love to hear your side of
the story about how we met or how you
met Bass.
All right. Yes,
I remember
You know, a very
memorable moment for me. I was in
Australia, Sydney
filming for Souldiers Strength
and they wanted to promote their brand
more, so they wanted to reach out to
influencers.
Um
they were talking about these super hot
chicks.
Who's that?
And he was to he was to hold a seminar
with you there, you know, in in in his
in his in his gym. He bypassed the hot
chicks and went straight to the club.
Anyway,
on on long story short,
I come up, we do the seminar, Bass uh
impresses me.
She like just the way he talks, the way
he coaches and and teaches the movements
of the lifts, you know. I was actually
able to do a PR that day in bench press
and I was just impressed. I was just
like, "Wow, this guy here can actually
improve my statistics a lot." And I I I
honestly believed that. I was just like,
you know, if I want to improve my game,
like I'm already here like I've been
like
I I I'm on this close to winning the
World's Strongest Man. This close to
winning the the biggest shows. Like I
believe like if I'm if I'm going to if
I'm going to be the best, I need to up
my game. I need to get myself a coach
that I believe in. So, while all this
was happening, you know, you were just
talking. I was just sitting there
impressed and I was like, "Wow, this guy
is just actually talking to
While
while you were just talking and just
like the more impressed I got, I just
just decided to finally go to ask the
guy,
"You want to be my coach?"
That was the best day. I remember it so
clearly. I was crying. I was just so
happy for Bass. Like, how did you feel,
Bass?
Well, I I not in a million years would I
believe that would happen.
No way.
But you're the one that he that told me
that he was coming in. And I thought,
"You know what? Cuz they didn't come to
me. Souldiers Strength came to the
girls, the influence, not the the pleb
guy, the pleb that's lifting weights."
Um so I said to you, "Get me in that
room because I just wanted to meet this
guy, not because of Mountain from Game
of Thrones, but because I knew he was
the strongest man on the planet. And he
was a beast and it's like, "I want to
meet this guy. Get me in there."
Yeah. And then for him to ask me to be
his coach, it was just no way in a
million years. It was like a dream.
Yeah, well, it wasn't a dream. It was
just [__] didn't
actually a dream.
And when he asked me, I just thought,
"Okay, how do you do this? Like I still
need to sell myself even though I was
sold. Like he asked me to be his coach."
And I thought, "You know what? [__]
this. I'm not going to [__] and
pretend that yeah, I'll see if I have
time.
I said, "You know what? Hell for man.
Like this is the best opportunity in my
career ever and I'll do anything to to
to take that role, man."
And look where we are.
And he said, "Would you travel
overseas?" And I'm like, "Yes, like
yes."
That was the selling point for me. I was
like, "Okay, he's actually willing to
put in the work. He's willing to coach
me and like
travel the world, be there
by my side." So I was like,
"Yeah." But who we would have never have
thought that we would be here like
straight away as soon as you asked him.
I think it was in June 2016. You were
like, "Okay, first competition, come to
the UK." And then you flew over there.
Now we spend like a a couple of months
you know, two to three months of the
year traveling for you and with you and
it's amazing. We never would have
thought that our life would have become
this, but now we're like all friends and
family and it's just beautiful.
It's definitely been a huge life changer
for me and a lot of people talk about
with success that you have to plan.
And that's the funny thing with me, I
would have never have planned for this
in a million years.
You couldn't.
Uh so completely unexpected, completely
unplanned for and and complete change of
lifestyle that we've all had. Like you
said, you know, a few months of every
year since 2016,
we've been traveling. You know, the main
place that we travel to is Iceland. You
know, I hang out here and and I'm so
happy. I've I've left my family at home,
but I've come over here to my Icelandic
family and I just see everyone that I've
just loved and known for years that
we've just been able to spend so much
time with and it's such a nice trip to
see my Icelandic family. I just love it.
And you feel at home?
I do feel at home with these guys and
it's just something that I would never
have planned for in a million years and
yeah, couldn't be happier that it it
actually happened. Yeah, no, it's an
amazing experience as always. So we're
so grateful for the opportunities you've
given us over the years and we've just
had so much fun along the way.
We just need to get you back here. Yeah,
Thor, it's been way too long. Like four
years later, he still hasn't come over
here.
The last time I went to Sydney,
Australia was when I saw you.
That's crazy. I know. What's it going to
take to get you back here? Those those
business class, first class seats aren't
even big enough for you.
Souldiers been
talking a lot of vacation.
I know. I'm trying to get it a company
here.
I know, but it is it is far and it's
hard.
It's hard. Even in a business
I I've seen this guy curled up in a
business uh class seat.
It's like a whole day in the air. It's
over 24 hours in the air in a little
seat like that. I do understand, but I
do understand that we're going to get
you back there soon, man.
That's okay. You know we will always
come to you, Thor.
You're worth it.
Thor, we have another question for you.
Let's talk about the mindset of a
champion. Can you share with us what
goes through your mind before stepping
on the world stage to compete? Before I
compete, it's everything that happens
before, you know. I
I'm you know, I'm so obsessed with, you
know, perfection. Making sure everything
is dialed in. Making sure I eat my six
meals a day. Making Making sure that,
you know, I do my recovery work, get my
training training in. You know, the the
easiest part is actually the training.
It's actually funny to say that, but
that's the easiest part. But, you know,
my mindset works like that. The more I
win, the better I get. The the the the
more focused I get. I don't know, it's
hard to describe, you know. It's just
like for me, I don't think you can teach
people to be inspired to become
successful. You either you are that type
of person
or not. I'm a very driven person as an
athlete, you know. I love working hard.
I love being
focused, consistent and and that's the
way I am, you know. From my perspective,
um when it comes to mindset of a
champion, I know because I'm an educator
as well. I hold seminars and I know that
it's a really important topic for a lot
of people. A lot of people need to work
on their own mindset and I know that
whenever I talk about the topic of
mindset, people love to listen to it.
But even though I've been in the
presence of literally the best in the
world, it's something that I also need
to get my head around as well because
I'm an athlete at a pretty high level,
definitely not as high as yours. And I
know that self-doubt comes into it a
lot. Um and I I've learned a lot from
from working with you, but I still like
you said, you've either got it or you
don't. And I know that there's a quality
that you have that I'm continually
trying to that I look up to a lot. Um
and that is your self-belief.
Uh a lot of the things that you do like
I've spent a whole day eating with you
and you said to me after that, "Are you
going to continue eating like this?" And
I said, "No, I can't keep this up." And
he said, "Do you think you'd be stronger
if you did?" And I said, "Of course I
would." So I was like, "Well, why don't
you do it?"
And that's part of it. The dedication
that is involved in being a champion.
You know, being willing to put in the
work. It's like that's a that's a smack
in the face to me. It's like, "Damn,
you're a lazy bastard. You're just not
willing to put in the effort that it
takes to be the champion." Well,
compared to Thor, like everyone seems
like lazy or not. Thor, I always say you
are literally the hardest worker I've
ever seen.
Like what you just do not complain. You
you'll never miss a session.
Like you said, the gym is where the easy
work is done and we see it. The sleep,
the recovery, the nutrition.
Uh you know, the the commitment to
greatness involves, you know, saying no
to going out and partying and doing all
of those things that a lot of young guys
and girls would love to be doing. Uh but
the dedication is is a huge factor to
the mindset and and like you said, you
either got it or you don't. Yeah, I I I
I totally agree.
It's um
it's something that you just learn from
a young age and then you just build it
and get better and better as an as an as
an athlete, I guess, you know. Probably
what I use mostly as a as as a
motivation is, you know,
every single day I think about my
competitors. I think I'm doing this and
I bet they are not doing this. So I'm
going to do more of this. I'm going to
I'm going to do 1% that they will not
I'm going to make sure that I go to bed
before they do. I'm going to make sure
that I get my 8 hours sleep every single
night. I'm going to make sure that I eat
my six meals every single day. I'm going
to make sure that I train
smarter
and better than them. And I'm going to
make sure that you know, I really just
bow in. You know, I get my
grass fed bone, you know, for those that
you know know me, know that I like grass
fed bone. It's like a massage for that.
We will you find scraping? It's like
scraping, you know,
it forces the blood to the area and and
for me it works very well. It it helps
my body to stay injury free.
Um,
you know, I
do these things and I'm always trying to
find
find a ways to get even better. I'm
always trying to find like I'm always
trying to find that like small ads. I
even I even sometimes change my diet a
tiny bit. For example, for this trip I
start eat, you know, I'm I'm I'm I'm a
huge believer
in good nutrition.
A well balanced
diet. I follow the work on diet.
But I I I I I decided to um
add in one to tomatoes every single
morning in this travel version. Why
tomatoes? And I decided to add
one banana. And this is just like a
small detail that I add in.
Small details that I add into my diet,
you know, why do some things but the
nutrition factor comes from those foods
or whatever you know.
I'm just so
so big
big believer in, you know, if I if if I
just get a little bit more of that
nutrition, I'll I'll I'll I'll I'll I'll
I'll get maybe one or two percent more
stronger. So I'm going to do that.
I love your attention attention to
detail, Thor. That's amazing.
Something I guess it's a really great
take home point for the people that are
listening
is the change the evolution of the
highest level of athleticism in the
world. Gone are the days where it's all
about working harder. Obviously we know
we have to work hard to an extent but
some of the words that we're listening
to Hafthor talk about is working
smarter. You know, there's back in the
days we heard guys like Mike Tyson talk
about
if his competitors are waking up at six
or five, he's going to wake up an hour
earlier. We're not talking about that.
We're talking about making sure he's
getting the 8 hours of sleep. So it's
not always just about working harder.
Even Arnold Schwarzenegger while we're
here at the The Arnold, I'll talk about
him.
It's a pretty funny quote. He talks
about if you want to sleep more or if
you think you need more sleep, sleep
faster or something like that. It's all
along the lines of the success tips of
the olden days
of work more, rest less
to be better. And and actually that's
not actually how it is. So it's
something that we know in the flesh from
the current strongest man on the planet.
It's not just about beating yourself to
the ground. He works as hard as anyone
that I know but he's very intelligent
with his approach. Recovery, nutrition
plays a huge factor. As he said, the
training is the easy part.
And I can see it first hand. To be able
to eat the way that he eats,
it's a full time job. To be able to
think about your recovery and all of
these things, it's food for thought for
the people out there that think it's
just about working your butt off to
achieve the greatness that someone like
Hafthor has achieved.
It's amazing. Insane. Okay, Kelsey and
Thor, we just want to ask you guys a few
couples questions. Are you ready?
How tall are you both? I'm 6'9, 205
centimeters. Wow. And I'm 5'2 and I have
no idea what that is in centimeters. Say
it again. I think it's like 156 cuz
we're the same. Kelsey's like similar
height to us. Okay. Okay. What shoe size
do you both have? Um, 16 USA and that's
like 15 and a half in
Europe. It's great. That's insane. And
you're a six? Kelsey's a six like us.
They're like tiny little shoes. Who's
got the biggest shoe collection? That's
hard
to answer.
I don't know. He I probably me because
he just got rid of a bunch of shoes. So
you've got more.
But Thor's take up the most space.
Exactly.
Okay, who spoons who more in bed?
100% I'm the big spoon.
So you spoon him. So that means
or like
or that way. So you spoon him.
Leg over his big hips.
Wow. Okay, one more. I know the answer
for this one. Who's grumpier in the
morning?
Yes.
Kelsey is the worst. We've stayed with
you guys. She's the worst in the
morning. She hates being woken up and
Thor, you're like the happiest person in
the morning. I'm so happy in the
morning. I know. You're the best. You
are.
Okay, on that note, it's bedtime for you
guys. We need to wrap this up. Thank you
so much for chatting with us. It's been
an absolute blast as always. We can't
wait to be back all together soon at
World's Strongest Man in Florida. We
can't wait to see you all. And now,
Sebastian, you can come home now. We
miss you.
I'll be home I'm I'm leaving tomorrow
but because Australia is the furthest
away from every country, it's going to
be the day after that.
Yeah. So I'll see you in two days. Yay.
Thanks, guys. We love you. Mwah. Keep up
the great work.
And for those listening to the Back to
Base podcast, thanks for tuning in and
we'll see you guys next time. See you
soon. Bye, guys. Bye.